We previously discussed hardforks and softforks.
It's important to note that there's also something called a source code fork,
which is neither of these.
A source code fork is the term used for copying
the entire codebase of an existing project to a new project.
We mentioned that a source code fork happens in both a hardfork
and a softfork because there needs to be a copy of the code base made.
But, it's possible to create that copy then never
tie back the updated software to the history of the software's blockchain.
To be a softfork or hardfork,
there needs to be that connection to
the original blockchain that the new software was forked from.
In a hardfork, the network maintains a shared history of transactions and in a softfork,
they maintain both their history and future transactions.
An example of a source code fork is light coin.
Light coin is a source code fork of Bitcoin that resulted in an alternative currency.
With light coin, they copied the Bitcoin code base,
implemented their changes, and created
an entirely new block chain with no association to Bitcoin.
The currency now trades as a completely separate alternative to Bitcoin.
To recap, changes are implemented in Bitcoin using the Bitcoin improvement proposals.
These changes are voted on by minors and implemented by software developers.
These changes result in either a hardfork or softfork.
In a hard fork the new version is permanent
and completely incompatible with the previous version.
In softfork, the network only temporarily splits as the change rolls out.
Both of these are different than a source code fork,
which is just a copy of the existing code base with
changes that break any relationship to the existing chain.
In the following quiz,
try to see if you can identify the different examples as either softforks,
hardforks or source code forks.